hello everyone today I have an amazing
story for you it's not just for your
listening practice but also to inspire
you the story is called nothing is free
and it will show you that hard work and
determination can change lives there was
a young man named Leo 20 years old
living in a small quiet Town surrounded
by mountains Leo had Big Dreams he
wanted to own a chain of restaurants and
become a success ful
entrepreneur but life wasn't easy for
him Leo's family was struggling
financially his father Mark was a
mechanic and his mother Claire cleaned
houses to make ends meet Leo's younger
sister Sophie was just 10 and looked up
to him as her
hero one cold evening Leo sat outside
his small house staring at the
stars he whispered to himself
I want to give my family a better life
but how do I start when we barely have
enough to
survive the next day Leo shared his
dreams with his father Mark sighed and
said Leo dreams are not free if you want
something you have to fight for it start
with what you have even if it's
small Leo thought deeply about his
father's words then an idea struck him
he noticed that in his town people loved
fresh bread but had to travel to a
bakery far away he decided to start
selling fresh bread
locally but there was a problem Leo had
no money to buy the bread he decided to
take a chance and approach the bakery's
owner Mr
Anderson Leo walked miles to meet Mr
Anderson a grumpy old man who rarely
trusted anyone with confidence Leo said
Mr Anderson I want to sell your bread in
my town but I don't have money to buy it
up front can you trust me for one week I
will sell the bread return your money
and keep a small
profit Mr Anderson raised an
eyebrow and why should I trust you young
man he asked Leo replied
firmly because I am determined and I
will work hard to prove
myself after a long pause Mr Anderson
said all right I'll give you bread for
one week if you fail to pay me back
don't bother coming here again Leo was
thrilled early the next morning he
carried the bread back to his town and
set up a small stand near the park he
greeted every passer by with energy and
a smile saying fresh bread warm and
delicious at first people were hesitant
they didn't know if the bread was good
good but Leo offered free samples and
soon had his first
customer by the end of the day he had
sold all the bread and made a small
profit that evening he returned to Mr
Anderson and paid him back the old man
nodded and said you kept your word come
back
tomorrow from then on Leo worked
tirelessly he woke up at 4:00 a.m.
walked to the bakery carried bread to
his town and sold it with
passion after two months he had saved
enough money to buy a small cart making
it easier to transport more
bread one day a customer suggested Leo
why don't you bake your own bread you're
good at selling but if you bake you'll
make more
profit this idea excited Leo but it also
scared him he had never baked anything
in his life this was the moment where
Leo realized nothing is free not success
not knowledge not growth if I want to
succeed I must take risks and learn Leo
couldn't stop thinking about the idea of
baking his own bread if he could bake he
wouldn't have to rely on Mr Anderson and
his profit would
grow but there was one big problem he
didn't know how to bake Leo decided to
ask Mr Anderson for help the next
morning after delivering his payment Leo
said
Mr Anderson can you teach me how to bake
the old man
frowned why should I teach you if you
bake you won't buy from me anymore
that's bad for my
business Leo looked at him and said
you're right but I won't forget the man
who gave me my first chance if I succeed
I'll make sure to help your bakery
too Mr Anderson thought for a moment
then
said fine but baking isn't easy it takes
time patience and hard work if you're
ready for that I'll teach
you the lessons began early the next
morning Leo arrived at the bakery at
3:00 a.m. before the sun was up Mr
Anderson showed him how to mix flour
knead the dough and bake it
perfectly at first Leo struggled his
hands hurt from kneading and his bread
came out too hard or too soft one day
after ruining another batch of bread Leo
sat down feeling defeated he said to
himself maybe I'm not good enough for
this maybe I should give up but then he
remembered his father's words dreams are
not
free he realized that every mistake was
teaching him something new giving up was
not an
option the next day Leo went back to the
bakery with even more determination
he practiced every single step
carefully slowly his bread started
improving after two weeks Mr Anderson
handed him a loaf and said this is
perfect Leo you're ready Leo was
overjoyed he rented a small oven and
began baking bread at home his family
was amazed by his hard work Sophie his
little sister helped him pack the bread
and his mother made tea for him while he
worked late into the night soon Leo
wasn't just selling bread he started
making cookies and pastries too people
in the town loved his products they said
Leo's bread tastes better than anything
we've had
before but success wasn't
easy one day a new bakery opened in the
town run by a young man named Eric Eric
had a big fancy shop with colorful signs
and decorations
people were curious and started buying
from him instead Leo noticed his sales
dropping he felt scared what if he lost
everything he worked so hard for but
instead of panicking Leo decided to
improve he listened to his customers and
asked what do you like about Eric's
Bakery what can I do
better some said Eric's shop looks clean
and pretty others said
his cakes have beautiful
designs Leo realized he needed to grow
not just as a baker but as a
businessman using his savings Leo
painted his cart added bright
decorations and started offering free
samples of his new
pastries he even learned how to decorate
cakes by watching videos in the
library slowly customers returned to him
one evening an elderly woman came to Leo
and said I've seen many young men give
up when times get hard but you
didn't that's why we trust you her words
filled Leo with
pride months passed and Leo's business
grew he saved enough money to rent a
small shop it wasn't as big as Eric's
but it was warm and welcoming he named
it Leo's fresh
bakes every morning he woke up Before
Sunrise
baked fresh bread and opened his shop
with a smile his parents and sister
helped him Sophie now 11 loved talking
to customers and Claire managed the
accounts but Leo knew this wasn't the
end of his journey he wanted to reach
more people make his family proud and
prove to himself that anything is
possible with hard work Leo's Bakery
Leo's fresh bakes was becoming the heart
of the Town people loved his fresh bread
Cakes and
Pastries business was growing and his
family was proud of him but life wasn't
done testing
Leo one stormy night as Leo was closing
his shop he noticed smoke coming from
the
bakery he rushed inside and saw that a
small fire had started near the oven he
quickly grabbed water and managed to
stop the Flames but much of his
equipment was damaged the next morning
when the town's people heard about the
fire they came to check on him some said
oh no what will Leo do now others
whispered maybe this is the end for
him Leo felt heartbroken but not
defeated he stood outside his Bakery and
said this is just a challenge I've faced
struggles before and I will face this
too I Won't Give Up
he took a deep breath and began making a
plan he calculated how much money he had
saved and realized it wasn't enough to
replace all the
equipment for a moment fear crept in but
Leo remembered his journey how he
started with nothing but a dream and
hard
work instead of sitting and worrying Leo
asked for help he approached Mr Anderson
who had retired and said sir I need
advice
what would you do if you were
me Mr Anderson smiled and said Leo you
already know the
answer you've taught yourself that
nothing is free work harder believe in
yourself and people will believe in you
too inspired Leo decided to rebuild he
didn't wait for someone to rescue him he
started baking at home again with the
little equipment he had left he told his
customers I won't let you down I'll keep
serving you even if it's just a small
amount for
now the town's people admired his
courage many of them started helping him
some donated ingredients others gave
small amounts of money and a few offered
their time to help him clean and repair
the bakery Leo realized something
important when you work hard and never
give up people notice they want to help
someone who helps themselves after
months of hard work Leo reopened his
Bakery it was better than ever he
painted the walls added new decorations
and even introduced new items like
cupcakes and muffins his customers were
Overjoyed on the day of the grand
reopening the town's mayor came and said
Leo you are a true inspiration you've
shown us all that with determination
anything is possible Leo stood in front
of the crowd and said I want to thank
each one of you you've taught me that
nothing in life is free not success not
respect not
love everything must be earned with hard
work patience and
persistence never let failure stop you
every challenge is just a step to
something
greater from that day
Leo's Bakery didn't just sell bread it
became a symbol of Hope people from
other towns started visiting to meet the
young man who never gave up Leo's story
teaches us that one dreams are not free
they require hard work and
sacrifice two failure is not the end
it's a chance to learn and grow stronger
three help yourself first when people
see your effort they will support you
four never give up the darkest moments
are often just before success Leo didn't
just build a bakery he built a life full
of purpose respect and pride and so can
you whatever your dream is don't stop
chasing it remember nothing is free but
everything is possible